subprojects/dependency-management/preview-features.adoc, before:

# Gradle 5.0 Feature Previews

## New Gradle `.module` metadata format

In order to provide rich support for variant-aware dependency management and dependency constraints, Gradle 5.0 will define a new module metadata format, that can be used in conjunction with Ivy descriptor and Maven POM files in existing repositories.

The new metadata format is still under active development. The latest version of the specification can be found https://github.com/gradle/gradle/blob/master/subprojects/docs/src/docs/design/gradle-module-metadata-specification.md[here]. Currently there are the following issues with enabling it in Gradle 4.x:

- We do not yet guarantee backward or forward compatibility for the metadata file format. Thus, resolution may change when upgrading Gradle, if a metadata file is published with an old format.
- An additional request is required for Maven and Ivy repositories to check for the new metadata file.

[NOTE]
Activate this feature in Gradle 4.6+ by setting `org.gradle.gradlemetadata=true` in _gradle.properties_.

### Publishing `.module` metadata files

If this feature preview is activated, the _maven-publish_ and _ivy-publlish_ plugins automatically publish a `.module` file in addition to the `pom`/`ivy.xml` metadata file. If these modules are consumed by Gradle, _dependency constraints_ and _version constraints_, for examples strict versions, are preserved. By still publishing the traditional metadata formats, compatibility with Maven and Ivy is still ensured as much as possible.

The `.module` files are used to automatically publish the `api` and `runtime` variants of  Java libraries. These variants are honoured during dependency resolution. Additional publishing features will be added in the future which will allow for the publication of additional variants.

### Consuming `.module` metadata files

If this feature preview is activated, Gradle automatically searches for a `.module` file for each dependency in a Maven or Ivy repository. If the file is found, it is preferred over the `pom`/`ivy.xml` file.

If a `.module` file is found, _dependency constraints_ and _version constraints_ of the dependency are consumed from that file and are honored during dependency resolution.

Commit message:

Replace obsolete property use with feature preview API

subprojects/dependency-management/preview-features.adoc, after:

# Gradle 5.0 Feature Previews

## New Gradle `.module` metadata format

In order to provide rich support for variant-aware dependency management and dependency constraints, Gradle 5.0 will define a new module metadata format, that can be used in conjunction with Ivy descriptor and Maven POM files in existing repositories.

The new metadata format is still under active development. The latest version of the specification can be found https://github.com/gradle/gradle/blob/master/subprojects/docs/src/docs/design/gradle-module-metadata-specification.md[here]. Currently there are the following issues with enabling it in Gradle 4.x:

- We do not yet guarantee backward or forward compatibility for the metadata file format. Thus, resolution may change when upgrading Gradle, if a metadata file is published with an old format.
- An additional request is required for Maven and Ivy repositories to check for the new metadata file.

[NOTE]
Activate this feature in Gradle 4.6+ by adding `enableFeaturePreview("GRADLE_METADATA")` in _settings.gradle(.kts)_.

### Publishing `.module` metadata files

If this feature preview is activated, the _maven-publish_ and _ivy-publlish_ plugins automatically publish a `.module` file in addition to the `pom`/`ivy.xml` metadata file. If these modules are consumed by Gradle, _dependency constraints_ and _version constraints_, for examples strict versions, are preserved. By still publishing the traditional metadata formats, compatibility with Maven and Ivy is still ensured as much as possible.

The `.module` files are used to automatically publish the `api` and `runtime` variants of  Java libraries. These variants are honoured during dependency resolution. Additional publishing features will be added in the future which will allow for the publication of additional variants.

### Consuming `.module` metadata files

If this feature preview is activated, Gradle automatically searches for a `.module` file for each dependency in a Maven or Ivy repository. If the file is found, it is preferred over the `pom`/`ivy.xml` file.

If a `.module` file is found, _dependency constraints_ and _version constraints_ of the dependency are consumed from that file and are honored during dependency resolution.
